proposal: Talent Plan Courses - Distributed Database System (#129)
pingcap/community: rfc/2019-12-9-Talent-Plan-Course-DDS.md

# Proposal: Talent Plan Courses - Distributed Database System

- Author(s): [Ling Jin](https://github.com/JinLingChristoher)
- Last updated: 2019-12-11
- Discussion at: [Incubating Program: Talent Plan Courses - Distributed Database System](https://github.com/pingcap/community/issues/141)

## Abstract

> The proposal aims at create a distributed database system course to help more people to have a touch of TiDB. Participants of the course should be able to submit pull requests to TiDB related projects after finishing the course materials.

Reviewer: > should be able to submit pull requests to TiDB related projects

Is this a tempting or rewarding goal for contributors? I think we should be more than that...  I like your previous version better

> The proposal aims at creating a distributed database system course to help more people to have a touch of TiDB. After finishing the course materials, participants should gain practical experience in building complex distributed system software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proposal aims at creating a distributed database system course to help more people to have a touch of TiDB. After finishing the course materials, participants should have knowledge preparation for building a complex distributed system software and gain practical experience with it.
```

- [Reading in Database system, 5th Edition](http://www.redbook.io/)
- [Architecture of a Database system](http://db.cs.berkeley.edu/papers/fntdb07-architecture.pdf)
- [Database System Concept](https://www.db-book.com/db6/index.html)
- [Database System Implementation](http://infolab.stanford.edu/~ullman/dbsi.html)
- [CMU cs15445 Database System](https://15445.courses.cs.cmu.edu/fall2019/schedule.html)
- [CMU cs15721 Advanced Database System](https://15721.courses.cs.cmu.edu/spring2019/schedule.html)
- [UCB cs186 course materials](https://cs186berkeley.net/)
- [MIT 6.830 course materials](http://db.csail.mit.edu/6.830/)
- [Stanford cs245 course materials](http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs245/)
- [MIT 6.824 Distributed Systems](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.824/)
- [Princeton COS418 Distributed Systems](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/fall19/cos418/)
- [Princeton COS316 Principle of Computer System Design](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/fall19/cos316/)
- [UCB Operating Systems and System Programming](https://cs162.eecs.berkeley.edu/)
- [Distributed System 3rd Edition](https://www.distributed-systems.net/)

> Many important topics have already been covered in the above topics, based on which course developers design the course content. The final content should be concrete and easy to understand, and, preferably, related to TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many important topics have already been covered in the above materials, based on which course developers design the course content. The final content should be concrete and easy to understand, and, preferably, related to TiDB.
```

### Programming Assignments

> For programming assignments, we will be constructing a distributed database system framework. Even though there are many programming scaffolds about the database system and the distributed system, but they are not strongly connected. The languages they use, C++ or Java,are not friendly to young students. Therefore, we use Golang to build the framework, which is more students friendly and also the primary language used in the TiDB ecosystem. The content of the project will be borrowed from course materials listed below:

Reviewer: Can we use another word instead of scaffolds?

> For programming assignments, we will be constructing a distributed database system framework. Even though there are many well-organized programming assignments about the database system and the distributed system, but they are not strongly connected. The languages they use, C++ or Java, are not friendly to young people. Therefore, we use Golang to build the framework, which is more user friendly and also the primary language used in the TiDB ecosystem. The idea of the project will be borrowed from course materials listed below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For programming assignments, we will be constructing a distributed database system framework. Even though there are many well-organized programming assignments about the database system and the distributed system,  they are not strongly connected. The languages they use, C++ or Java, are not friendly to young people. Therefore, we use Golang to build the framework, which is more user-friendly and also the primary language used in the TiDB ecosystem. The idea of the project will be borrowed from course materials listed below:
```

- [CMU Bustub](https://github.com/cmu-db/bustub)
- [UCB moocbase](https://github.com/berkeley-cs186/fa19-moocbase)
- [MIT SimpleDB](https://github.com/MIT-DB-Class/simple-db-hw)
- [MIT SimpleKV](https://github.com/MIT-DB-Class/simpleKV)

## Rationale

> For TiDB Community, an educational distributed database system project in Golang for the novice is necessary. With friendly and organized course content as invitation cards for young people to TiDB, we can open the door wider to campus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For TiDB Community, an educational distributed database system project in Golang for the novice is necessary. The friendly and organized course content will serve as an invitation for more potential community members to TiDB.  
```

Reviewer: Not only campus

> For TiDB Community, an educational distributed database system project in Golang for the novice is necessary. The friendly and organized course content will serve as an invitation cards for more potential community members to TiDB.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For TiDB Community, an educational distributed database system project in Golang for the novice is necessary. The friendly and organized course content will serve as an invitation for more potential community members to TiDB.
```
